saarCTF Vulnbox Build Tool
==========================

Vulnbox images are automatically generated by [Packer](https://www.packer.io/) and run docker or [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) 

Images are based on [Debian 12 (Bookworm)](https://packages.debian.org/bookworm/).

Subsequent builds can be speed up by installing *apt-cacher-ng* on the host: `apt-get install -y apt-cacher-ng`.

What is here
------------

- Scripts to build a vulnbox including services that follow the [saarCTF service template](https://github.com/MarkusBauer/saarctf-gamelib)
- Scripts to build a testbox (similar to vulnbox but with a simple test service only)
- Scripts to build a "router VM"
- Scripts to convert any of there .ova VM images to a .tar.xz cloud bundle or cloud image (see below)

How to build the vulnbox
------------------------

- **Step 0.1:** Download and install [Packer](https://www.packer.io/), [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and optionally [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/).
  - Note: Packer from debian apt repos is too old to be used here (04/2024) 
 
- **Step 0.2:** Run `poetry install`

- **Step 1:** Create a project: copy a folder in [projects/](projects/) and edit the `vulnbuild.yaml`. Add your service repos here.

- **Step 2:** Prepare services

  All services in `projects/<your-project>/services` are included. They must be structured
  following [these guidelines](https://github.com/MarkusBauer/saarctf-gamelib).
  Use `poetry run vulnbuild project=<your-project> clone` to clone pre-configured repos.
  Use `poetry run vulnbuild project=<your-project> pull-service pull-gamelib` to update services.

- **Step 3:** Build the vulnbox

  These targets might be a good start. Vulnbuild only builds missing targets or ones with changed dependencies.
  `poetry run vulnbuild project=<your-project> vm:vulnbox`
  `poetry run vulnbuild project=<your-project> vm:router vm:testbox vm:vulnbox:7z vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle:gpg vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle:hetzner`

Vulnbuild Tool
--------------
Think of the vulnbuild tool as a big Makefile, which builds targets including their dependencies.
You can see all possible targets: `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 list --all`

Some important commands are:

- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 list --all`  (see all targets)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 clone`  (clone all configured services)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 pull-service pull-gamelib`  (update all services and their gamelibs to current master)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 service:xyz`  (build a single service)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 vm:vulnbox --force`  (build the vulbox)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle:hetzner`  (build orga-hosted image)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 upload`  (build and upload all targets from your config)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 clean [service:xyz] [vm:vulnbox]`  (remove build outputs)
- `poetry run vulnbuild project=saarctf-2023 pull-service pull-gamelib upload vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle:hetzner`
  (build everything for a CTF - if you're lucky)

Customizing the vulnbox
-----------------------

- Each project gets a fresh SSH key and encryption password (in output/<your-project>/)
- The greeting frontpage can be edited in `/frontpage` and `/frontpage-testbox`.
- The general structure of build steps is in [projects/default/scripts](projects/default/scripts).
    - Scripts can be in `projects/default/scripts` or `projects/<your-project>/scripts`
    - Executed are files from `scripts/`, `scripts/<builder/`, `scripts/<target>/`, and `scripts/<target>-<builder>`,
      where builder is e.g. `virtualbox`, and target is e.g. `vulnbox`
    - Scripts with the same filename override each other, more specialized variants are preferred

Cloud builds
------------
We can convert any of these VMs into a `.tar.xz` bundle that is suited for cloud hosting.
These bundles are our hacky way to get cloud images, which we came up with due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Please read the [setup instructions on ctf.saarland](https://ctf.saarland/setup#setupCloud) to get an idea what these bundles are.

To build a bundle from an existing ova VM image, run: `poetry run vulnbuild project=... vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle`

Conversion will ask for root (sudo), `libguestfs-tools` must be installed and all VirtualBox VMs must be powered off.


Orga-hosted cloud images
------------------------
Building a cloud-image for orga-hosted Hetzner Cloud is easy.

1. First build the regular vulnbox and the cloud bundle as described above.
2. `HCLOUD_TOKEN=... poetry run vulnbuild project=... vm:vulnbox:cloudbundle:hetzner`

### The manual way (deprecated)

If you (optionally) host vulnboxes as organizer, we provide Hetzner cloud images.
These cloud images come with WireGuard preinstalled that connects to the game network.
Use cloudinit to provide SSH keys, root password and `/etc/wireguard/vulnbox.conf`.
Include `sed '/^root/s/:0:0:99999:/:1:0:99999:/' -i /etc/shadow` in cloudinit's `runcmd` to get rid of some "password reset" issues.

1. First build the regular vulnbox and the cloud bundle as described above.
2. Create a new Hetzner Cloud Server (Debian), boot it into rescue mode.
3. Upload the cloud bundle archive and the scripts from `/cloudhosting-scripts` to `/dev/shm` on that machine.
4. Run `/dev/shm/install_bundle_for_orgahosted_cloud.sh <uploaded-archive.tar.xz>`
5. Shutdown the server and take a snapshot. This snapshot is your image. 


Hosting Vulnboxes (for test)
----------------------------
Virtualbox boxes: Try [utils/import_vm.sh](utils/import_vm.sh).
- `./utils/import_vm.sh output/.../router/router.ova router-team5 intteam5`
- `./utils/import_vm.sh output/.../testbox/testbox.ova testbox-team5 intteam5`
- `./utils/import_vm.sh output/.../vulnbox/vulnbox.ova vulnbox-team5 intteam5`

`intteam5` is an internal network, other options are `vboxnetX` and `eth1`.
Router has an additional interface for outgoing connections, its SSH is accessible on host's port 22222.  

For docker-based boxes:
- Import: `docker import output/workshop/docker-image-vulnbox.tar vulnbox:latest`
- Hosting: [utils/docker-compose.yml](utils/docker-compose.yml)

To test the image and gameserver locally, try:
- `PROJECT_NAME=... ./checkers-run.sh <IP>`
- `PROJECT_NAME=... ./exploits-run.sh <IP>`
